‘Advertorial

Sonalika: The Impossible Indian Success Story

x

Sh. L. D. MITTAL
k Chairman - Sonalika Group j

India is blessed with visionaries whose relentless efforts
have left an indelible mark and touched the heights of
success. In a candid conversation, the visionary tractor
titan, Sh. L. D. Mittal, Chairman of Sonalika Tractors,
shares how his dream of empowering the farming
community became the cornerstone of this unbelievable
Indian success story.

Q. Sonalika's growth story is unbelievable, What is the
‘success mantra behind this?

Sonalika was bom in a small non-industrial town of Hoshiarpur
in Punjab and has risen to be in the lst of Fortune 500 India
2024 Largest Companies with an overall tumover of estimated
US §1.1Bn, Thisis beyond imagination, yet true, What brought
ushereis a strong belief of providing global technologies to our
farmers to ease their work and enhance farm productivity,
irrespective of the scale of operations. Since inception the
foundation of Sonalika is built on 3 philosophies - Offer
best product and services to our customers, prioritise
stakeholder interest and do business with highest
standards of ethics and take no shortcuts for excellence.

Inthe early days when we started manufacturing threshers, we
were clear that we had to give the best products, often making
cost a secondary consideration. The approach helped us to
win the confidence of the farmers and understand their needs
intimately. We were overwhelmed with their response and they
requested us to make superior quality tractors as well. This
encouraged us fo enter the tractors business in1995. There
has been no looking back ever since with Sonalika winning the
hearts of milions of farmers across the country and globally
with its customer-centric approach to provide high quality
tractors, backed by a reliable service and spares support

We made this tougher by imposing our own self-discipline in
business principles and conviction to grow with our self-
resources. The ride was not easy and, often, there were

questions of survival
However, on each
occasion we emerged
stronger by sticking to our

‘Turnover US $1.1 bn
A Debt-Free Approach

since inception principle of remaining
<ci ineee. debt-free. This has
Biilesophies - =. helped us in thinking

best products & services, | :., d
‘stakeholders aivferently and doing
prioritizing things differently that has
& an ethical approach made us self-reliant. We
with no shortcuts. started with no

manufacturing plant or
R&D, but a firm belief that what we were doing is right as |
firmly believe that ‘Koshish karne walon ki kabhi haar nahi hot
This approach has kept us focused in design and develop our
‘own farm technologies to offer varied solutions for each
customer segment

The success of our customers has led the company to record
numerous milestones in the journey so far that cannot be
expressed in words. We take pride in being the No. 1 tractor
export brand from India, operating under a proud Indian name,

tractors a month today. We are always close to our customers
and ensure that we understand their growing needs and
Quickly improve our products to meet the requirement

During the initial years our requests to our suppliers for
modifications in engines and other aggregates were not
entertained by them on account of our iow volumes. That is
when we decided to build our own capabilites to make tractor
components in-house, be it engines, transmissions, sheet
metal, gear box and so on to ensure that the necessary
modifications are done quickly and needs of our customers are
futfled, Eventually, the demand for our heavy-duty tractors
kept increasing exponentially and became so high that we
decided to expand our manufacturing prowess which today is
the World's No.1 fully integrated tractor plant in Hoshiarpur.
This state-of-the-art manufacturing plant rolls out 1 tractor
every 2 minutes, backed by robotic operations and automated
production lines which are flexible to make different engines
and transmission on the same assembly line, Till date, the
plant remains unmatched in its capacities, Today, we develop
over 2,000 models catering to specific needs of domestic and
export markets.

SONALIKA

RECOGNIZED AMONGST
INDIA'S LARGEST
500 COMPANIES

-FORTUNE 500 INDIA 2024

FORTUNE

rather than being a contract manufacturer to an outside brand
Our exports market share is nearly double of the next
competitor with presence over 150+ countries. In India - the
world’s biggest tractor market, we are the 3rd largest tractor
brand that strives for excellence in every aspect of the
agriculture sector and consistently surpasses industry growth,
astatementof trustthat customers have in us,

Q. How did you make sure to deliver the best solutions to
the customers and stay true to your philosophy?

We have continued to strengthen our belief to deliver the best
in everything that we do irrespective to the scale of business -
be it the initial volume of 100 tractors a month to nearly 15,000

nia §
International Tractors Limited

We continue to work closely with our vendors and handhold
them in setting up their manufacturing base in Hoshiarpur. This
has helped us to create a complete business ecosystem
around our factory. To further enhance our technical expertise
and offer the best solutions to customers, we tied up with
global companies such as Renault & Yanmar.

| feel delighted to see happy faces of the farming community
and it keeps me inspired to do everything that can to simplify
theirlives and support and make theirlife better. Delivering top
quality products and services that consistently exceed
customer expectations has been our No. 1 priority. We stand
committed to innovate continuously and address every

farmer's needs and keep refining our strategies to deliver
supreme customer satisfaction,

Q. What is the philosophy of Sonalika towards its
stakeholders?

Sonalika believes that everyone who is associated with usis a
part of ‘One Big family and everyone is important.. One case in
points the COVID-19 pandemic that tested industries globally,
‘and Sonalika was no exception. However, Sonalika stood as a
shining example of resilience and care for its partners. We
prioritized employees by paying their salaries in advance
during uncertain times and did not lay-off a single worker.
Every supplier was paid-off on time and even in advance so
that they too could take care of their employees and business
needs. Sonalika takes pride in its family-oriented culture,
which has helped us to navigate challenging times with unity
andstrength.

Our decisions and actions are guided by the core values of
integrity, empathy and accountability. These shared values
uphold ethical standards, fostering trust and credibility for our
stakeholders, creating an all-inclusive environment of
transparency and commitment.

The philosophy has gone a long way in building a performance
led work culture that believes in teamwork and its only purpose
is to improve every day. We have examples of employees who
started with us and are head of departments now, dealers who
started as small businessmen and have tumed into business
tycoons and suppliers who have grown big with us. The
Sonalika family is built on trust and that converts into loyalty
and dedication towards our business. Numbers will keep
growing, what is more important for us is our belief in our
people, We are proud of the family of over 8,000 employees
‘and over 20,000 vendors & dealers.

Sonalika is committed to be a trustworthy partner of over 17
lakh farmers globally Itnot only provides best in class tractors
but also believes in transparency in its dealings with the
farmers. It is the only company that displays its tractor prices
cn its website unlike many other tractor companies. The
company has also ventured into NBFC services to assist
farmers with financing options.

Q. What is your message to aspiring entrepreneurs?

“Ae jazba-e-dil agar main chahun har cheez mugammil ho
jaaye, manzil ke liye do kadam chalun aur samnemanzilaa
Jaye’ — these words by Mirza Ghalib inspire me work hard
‘every day and yet believe that there is no shortcut to success,
Focus on hard work and execution over mere ideas and
presentation skils. True success lies in persistence and action
rather than waiting for external validation or funding. Take
‘ownership of your future!

In conclusion, we believe that farmers' prosperity is integral
to the growth of not just the tractor industry but also the
‘economy as a whole. Sonalika remains committed to its vision
‘of empowering farmers and achieving sustainable growth, |
believe my journey willbe futfling when ‘Kisan Ka beta bhi
Kisan bana chahega.’

FINANCIAL EXPRESS

Wed, 08 January 2025

https: //epaper. financialexpress. com/c/76583889

